Mithril update 2026-05-06 (#773)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2026-05-06-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2026-05-06-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

This week, the Mithril team completed the data encoding and state transition tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype and the detection of SNARK circuit modifications in the STM library. They continued work on the implementation of a SNARK-friendly protocol message, the trusted setup validation for the SNARK circuit in the STM library, the implementation of Schnorr signatures in the STM library, and the in-circuit verification tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype.

The team also continued work on the robust support for unknown and in progress signed entity types, and the enforcement of the DMQ message id format. They completed the test of the ledger state snapshot conversion in the end to end tests and the support for stable/unstable versions of the Open API.

> Finally, the team completed the acceleration of SNARK circuit tests in CI, the upgrade of Node.js 20 GitHub actions, and the fix for flaky nightly tests and circuit golden tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team completed the data encoding and state transition tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype, as well as the detection of SNARK circuit modifications in the STM library. They continued work on implementing a SNARK-friendly protocol message, the trusted setup validation for the SNARK circuit in the STM library, the implementation of Schnorr signatures in the STM library, and the in-circuit verification tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype.

The team also continued work on robust support for unknown and in-progress signed entity types, as well as enforcement of the DMQ message ID format. They completed the ledger state snapshot conversion tests in end-to-end tests and added support for stable and unstable versions of the OpenAPI specification.

Finally, they accelerated SNARK circuit tests in CI, upgraded Node.js 20 GitHub Actions, and fixed flaky nightly tests and circuit golden tests.
```
